So the, my only thinking is that we should
just take this principle and apply it
everywhere, right?
As much as possible to create analytic
pipelines from evidence-based components.
So and to standardize it.
And so jeff has a, another contribution to
this.
Is, he calls this the deterministic
statistical machine.
The idea that you have a algorithm or
pipeline that produces
a deterministic result given a set of data
and a minimal,
minimal set of inputs.
And so once this evidence based pipeline
is established, you don't mess with it,
alright?
So I call this, kind of, transparent box
analysis, right?
So it's a box, so you don't mess with
it, it's like Al Gore's lock box, but it's
transparent
because you know exactly what's happening
in there, alright, so
it's not a black box, you can see what's
happening.
But the point is, you don't mess with it.
So, one of the goals of this is
to reduce the so-called researcher degrees
of freedom,
where people can tinker with every single
tuning parameter
in the whole pipeline, which is, kind of,
growing exponentially.
And to kind of get whatever they want out
of the analysis.
So I think a lot, this is kind of
analogous to
what something ideal with what it
is [INAUDIBLE] pre-specifies clinical
trial protocol.
So when you run a clinical trail, you have
to say
everything you're going to do, including
how you're going to analyze the data.
And wouldn't it be nice if someone had
just written this for you?
Well, if you use a
standardized kind of pipeline someone has
written it for you.
And you just, you can pre-specify exactly
what
you can do for him for a given situation.
So, the basic structure of this the
cartoon of course will depend
on what you are actually, what question
you're actually trying to ask.
But you have some data set some minimal
input metadata perhaps
and then there's a series of modules that
it goes through.
Which can be quite long in the
reprocessing and sort of statistical
methods involved in all these pieces here.
and, and you can imagine that there'd be
like a benchmark set of
data sets or data set that is used to
evaluate various types of Statistical
methods and then you can produce some sort
of report which perhaps can
be cut and pasted into a methods sections
or posted in some public depository.
I just wanted to do a quick case study for
what I mean by this is one of the
things I do a lot is estimate acute
effects of avian air pollution exposure.
So so these are cor-relational types of
studies a lot of this
stuff kind of originated from the 70's and
80's so it's not.
We start doing this yesterday, we have a
long history of this kind of research.
The basic question, are short-term changes
in pollution
associated with short-term changes in a
population health outcome?
These are usually conducted at the level
of the community.
And we have a lot, and there's a lot
of statistical research that has gone,
some of it done
by myself, that has gone into this type of
analysis.
So this is what the data typically look
like.
We have, death counts, this is in New York
City.
We're going for a couple years here.
And then you have particulate matter
levels down here at the bottom.
Now you can see there's not as much
particulate matter data
as there is mortality data, because
there's a lot of missing data.
So, essentially you just want to say, is
this top thing correlated with the bottom
thing.
So question is, can we encode
everything that we found in the
statistical
and epidemiological research into a single
package?
The answer is yes.
Time series studies like this don't have a
huge range of variation.
And so they typically involve similar
types of data.
You know, it might be hospitalization
instead of
mortality or what not, but it's often very
similar.
And so can we create kind of
a deterministic statistical machine for
this area?
So the basic
kind of pipeline that looks, it's a very
simple pipeline.
This is not a very complicated analysis
for the most part.
You want to check the data, see if there
are any outliers, high leverage types of
points.
Pollution data is often skewed, so you
want to check for that.
Look for overdispersion.
Do you want to fill in the missing data?
The answer is absolutely no.
There's been a lot of work on that.
It doesn't, it doesn't turn out well.
The big question really here is model
selection, so one
of the things that we have to worry about
is
called unmeasured confounding in these
types of time series studies.
And you don't measure a lot of things that
vary over time.
So I guess this is like your batch
effects.
And so you have to, there are various
approaches
to estimating of how you adjust these
unmeasured confounders.
We use semiparametric progression methods
to do this, so.
Estimating the degrees of freedom, this
is, has the most profound effect
on any kind of association that you might
estimate, so this is critical.
So, but, you know, there is lots
of research on how to do this.
There's been a couple of papers One is
mine.
One of the various approaches to e,
estimating
this number of degrees of freedom and
there, and
you can settle on a, you know, one or
two approaches that are That are better
than others.
So we can just implement that.
Other aspects of the model tend not to be
that important.
Again, whether you adjust for temperature
and weather and other
things it kind of doesn't really matter
how you do that.
There's other things that you're typically
interested
in, multiple lag analysis and sensitivity
analysis.
So you want to see, you know, you can
select a model here, but if you want to
see
if you can move the model back and forth
a little bit Does your association change
dramatically, right?
So those are the typical things that you
want to see, in this kind of analysis.
And when I review, you know, one paper a
month, of, of
a time series study these are the things
that I always ask for.
So.
>> Roger.
>> Yeah.
>> Is there a 15 second response to
why.
Computation is so bad in the setting?
>> Oh, because the data
are missing systematically so the, the,
the pollution data is very difficult to
collect, and so they typically only
measure it only once every six days.
So there's five days missing for every six
to eight days.
One observation for every six days.
So, you can try to imp-to inpute it but
you just
add a lot of noise for a little bit of
savings advice.
So my thinking, I, I feel like this is,
you know, you can't have one obviously.
There's lots of various data analysis.
Different problems require different
expertise.
I can't handle everything, obviously.
So the idea is you can create a curated
library of these machines.
providing, kind of, the standardized,
state
of the art, analysis type, well, just
state of the art in can have different
meanings in different areas, obviously.
Time series analysis solutions are a very
well developed
area, there's not a lot of research,
statistical research,
going on, a lot of the questions have been
settled.
So, we could have a, kind of, archive of
these kinds of data analysis.
An archive for data analysis.
What analogy is this kind of Cochrane
Collaboration which, I don't know if
any of you are familiar with but
it's basically an archive of
evidence-based medicine.
So you can go to the Cochrane
Collaboration search for things like, you
can just
ask, you can search for, you know, can you
use vitamin C to treat asthma.
And so here, in the
summary it says.
You know, we reviewed evidence.
So, they, they just basically did
meta-analyses.
They reviewed evidence from nine clinical
trials of Vitamin C.
[COUGH] In general, the evidence, the, the
trails were very small.
It's not possible to recommend either the
use or the avoidance of Vitamin C.
In asthma.
Okay so.
So, we don't have to worry about vitamin
C.
That's not going to help us, it's not
going to hurt us.
So, something like, so this, this is
the basis of a lot of evidence-based
interventions,
evidence-based treatments.
So something like this could be done for
data analysis I think.
So, we can have a packages that encode the
analyses
pipelines Curated by experts, you know,
knowledgeable in the field.
These don't have to be perfect solutions
but it the idea is that, they'd
be, they'd be pretty good solutions to
kind of cover most of the bases.
And then so, that's kind of all
I wanted to say.
I, I think, so, I, I, I kind of did a bait
and switch.
I didn't really talk about reproducible
research.
But I do think it's important.
I, except for the fact I don't think
it Really fundamentally addresses the
utmost important question.
Whether you can trust the analysis.
And so I think, so the I think, so
what I call this evidence based data
analysis which
some people don't like that phrase but I
just
come up with organized standardized best
practices for given
scientific areas and questions.
And it's not that I don't think that they,
I don't think they exist.
Especially it's really professional kind
of
organizing and getting together and
honest.
I think this is something that could give
reviewers a
powerful tool and without dramatically
increasing the burden on them.
Like you know, requiring them to reproduce
the analysis would I think that we should
put more effort into kind of addressing
the up stream aspects of, of scientific
research.